♪ [music] ♪
Last thing I want to talk about is
something I like to call "templating
helpers," where sometimes you need data
available in every single request.
So if you look at our website here, you'll
see the tab says "undefined - Now That's
Delicious!" So if we look at our
layout.pug, you'll notice that it's asking
us to pass it a title variable, and we
haven't. So that's an easy fix.
We can go back to our hello, and pass it a
title, and say, like...
"I love food," and then when I refresh,
you'll see that "I love food" is now in
the title. Why? Because we passed the
locals a title variable,
and then we used it.
Now, what about the site name, "Now That's
Delicious!"? You notice that I'm not
passing it on every single request,
because it's...that would be too
cumbersome to pass that to every single
render. I'd rather just have every single
request have that data available. And
that's where I like to make a file called
"helpers.js," and if you open up your
application, right in the main folder,
you're gonna see helpers.js. And I just
called it "helpers," you might be able to
name it something a little bit better.
But essentially what helpers.js does is, I
put any helper libraries or any data that
I need in every single template, I put it
in my helpers.js file.
So if you scroll to the bottom, you'll see
exports.siteName, so the site name
property, is "Now That's Delicious!" and
that's what getting piped into there.
So if I were to change that to "hi That's
Delicious!" and hit refresh...and now,
see, "hi That's Delicious!"
You get the point, right?
Same with the menu here. I've opted to not
just hard code every single menu,
I've opted to be able to put the "stores,"
"tags," "top," "add," and "map," I put
those in an array so if I were to ever
change them, or you were to build some
sort of back-end interface for managing
the menu, I could take a couple of them
out, refresh the page, and they will
automatically be gone. So if you look at
layout.pug, you will see here: "each item
in h.menu." So what "each" will do is,
it will loop over every single item in an
array, and then you can simply say
"item.slug," "item.icon," "item.title,"
and that data is all coming from
item.slug, title, and icon, that we have
being pulled in there.
I'm doing a little bit more stuff where
I'm adding a class of active...if the
current path, which is the current URL, is
equal to or starts with "slug," and that
will just give it that highlighted look,
that we're going to be able,
once we have these other pages, we'll
click on it in the current page...
We'll click on it. Now, that helpers is
great, so that's kind of where you would
put it, but how does that happen? I just
made this helpers file.
Well, let's go back to our app.js...let's
go to about line 54 or so...this is a
concept called middleware, which we're
going to learn about it,
but essentially what it allows us to do is
say, "on every single request,
put the information in the locals."
Remember I said that these variables that
get passed, "name," "dog," and "title,"
those get put into something called
locals, but you can also put stuff on on
every single render. So we say,
"res.locals.h"... I just call it "h" for
brevity inside of my template..."=
helpers". Now where did helpers come from?
Helpers got required at the very top. So
what's happening here is that inside of
this file, we export "moment," and "dump,"
and "staticMap," and we're going to learn
exactly what all these things
are..."siteName," and then we go into our
app and we import it into a variable
called helpers, and then we simply give
that information to our helpers every
single time that we need it.
Now, that's different than the
variables.env, because this is all
sensitive information that probably
shouldn't make its way into our templating
in any way, but everything in our helpers
is stuff that is not sensitive, and it
doesn't need to be an environmental
variable. It just needs to be in a file
somewhere so that we can pull it into each
of our templates. So you can do that with
arrays, you can do that with strings, or
you can also do that with entire libraries
that you like to use.
So one library that I really like to use
is called moment.js, and what moment.js
will do is it'll give you this nice date
formatting, and it will give you relative
time, like "this was five years ago,"
"this was in 11 hours." So what you could
do is if you're in your hello.pug, we can
simply use that variable,
we could say something like... I have an
h2 tag, "Sale ends in," and then we just
run a little bit of Javascript with our
pound...whoops! And "h's" are helpers,
so everything is sort of under the
umbrella of h, dot, and then we have
"moment," and we can just start using the
Javascript library from then.
So we can say, ".endOf"...let's say the
sale ends at the end of the day,
and we want to know how soon is that? So
we say, "fromNow."
And then go back here, and it's going to
say, "Sale ends in 11 hours." So rather
than have to compute that all inside of my
route, sometimes I like to just pass a
timestamp from here, and then in my
layout.pug or in my hello.pug,
I'm able to use these helper libraries
to format the date in a way that
I wish to have. And the way
that you surface a helper library is
by putting it in your helpers.js.
♪ [music] ♪